content/about/emloyment.md, before:

+++
type = "employment-history"
+++

#### Software Engineer | QuotaGuard

<date>December 2015 - April 2018</date>

I was a remote Ruby and Golang developer. I had wide range of responsibilities and was able to deliver improvements to various parts of the product. 

- Was responsible for the implementation of HTTP and SOCKS5 proxies and auxiliary services (billing and log collectors, credential managers and health monitoring). My main focus was on improving reliability and visibility of the proxy deployments. All these services were written in golang.

- Was also responsible for a ruby dashboard application. I performed upgrade from rails 3 to rails 5, implemented and released re-designed version, replaced old jquery code with vue.js components.

- Managed large fleet of AWS EC2 VMs located in 10 different regions.

- Participated in the customer support and on boarding.

#### Full Stack Developer | Carnival Mobile

<date>June 2013 - November 2015</date>

Full stack engineer for a large mobile analytics platform. Some of the things I worked on:

- Set of large performant Ruby on Rails APIs;
- Modern realt time Ember.js dashboard application;
- Large scale push notification for APNS and Google Push Service;
- Real time analytics data processing;

#### Mobile Application Developer | IPS Pirates

<date>May 2009 - October 2012</date>

Remote mobile developer for a consulting company.

- Worked on a range of iOS and Android apps;
- Participated in web service design;

Commit message:

Add contracting section to the employment history

content/about/emloyment.md, after:

+++
type = "employment-history"
+++

#### Remote Full Stack Developer | Self-employed

<date>November 2015</date>

I have been contracting for several years since I moved to a smaller town. I have experience working as a member of a development team and as an independent developer. You can find projects that I worked on in my [portfolio](/projects/).

#### Software Engineer | QuotaGuard

<date>December 2015 - April 2018</date>

I was a remote Ruby and Golang developer. I had wide range of responsibilities and was able to deliver improvements to various parts of the product. 

- Was responsible for the implementation of HTTP and SOCKS5 proxies and auxiliary services (billing and log collectors, credential managers and health monitoring). My main focus was on improving reliability and visibility of the proxy deployments. All these services were written in golang.

- Was also responsible for a ruby dashboard application. I performed upgrade from rails 3 to rails 5, implemented and released re-designed version, replaced old jquery code with vue.js components.

- Managed large fleet of AWS EC2 VMs located in 10 different regions.

- Participated in the customer support and on boarding.

#### Full Stack Developer | Carnival Mobile

<date>June 2013 - November 2015</date>

Full stack engineer for a large mobile analytics platform. Some of the things I worked on:

- Set of large performant Ruby on Rails APIs;
- Modern realt time Ember.js dashboard application;
- Large scale push notification for APNS and Google Push Service;
- Real time analytics data processing;

#### Mobile Application Developer | IPS Pirates

<date>May 2009 - October 2012</date>

Remote mobile developer for a consulting company.

- Worked on a range of iOS and Android apps;
- Participated in web service design;
